Homework5-MatPlotLib-Pyber

ANALYSIS OF PYBER DATA - OBSERVABLE TRENDS

1.There is a clear discrepancy between fare prices across city types, with the difference between low Urban and high Rural fares being the most notable. One possible explanation which can be drawn from the data set for the disparity in fare prices, is that there may be an imbalance in the supply of, and demand for, Pyber services in the different city types. For example the data indicates an oversupply of Urban Pyber services by revealing that although over 80% of Pyber drivers (supply) operate in Urban zones, these zones constitute a lower percentage (68%) of total rides (demand). Given the general economic indicator of oversupply is lower prices, the indication that Urban fares constitue an even lower percentage (62%) of total Pyber fares offers further creedence to this hypothesis.

2.The data also indicates that there is an undersupply of Pyber services outside of the Urban zones, however rather than problematizing and analyzing this undersupply, the manner in which this undersupply could be used positively and proactively by Pyber to redress supply imbalances should be explored. Getting more Urban Pyber drivers to operate in non-Urban areas would be the most obvious solution to the supply imbalance. However, urban drivers may be reluctant to make that change (for professional and/or personal reasons) and Pyber should be hesitant to force drivers to operate in non-Urban areas because of the risk of employee discontent. The non-urban fare and ride data provides an avenue to make an incentive based argument to encourage Urban drivers to voluntarily make this change. For example, it could be highlighted that although less than 3% of drivers operate in Rural areas, these drivers share close to 7% of Pyber total fares between themselves. Similarly, it can be highlighted that the 16.5% of Pyber drivers who operate in Suburban zones share 30.5% of total Pyber fares between themselves. Furthermore, in the case of the Suburban zone (as the most probable initial driver transition point for logistical reasons such as distance, time, cost, etc) its 26% share of total Pyber rides should be highlighted as a means to assure drivers that demand for Pyber services (especially relative to the current 16.5% share of Pyber drivers) is strong in this zone. These data indicators would clearly draw attention to the potential for higher income, and consitent work/rides, for drivers in non-Urban zones. If a further persuasive comparative point is needed, Urban drivers can be reminded that their present situtation is that they currently form part of the +80% of drivers who share in approximately 60% of the total Pyber fares (as explained in the first observable trend)

3.A major limitation of the Pyber data set analyzed is that data related to ride distance is not included. It can be assumed that longer ride distances/times is a factor in the average higher fares in the non-Urban zones (particularly Rural), however without the data to support it that factor must remain an assumption. This is particularly problematic in the context of encouraging Pyber drivers to operate in non-Urban areas based on fare incentives, because it does not allow the costs (e.g. gas usage/prices, etc) to be factored into calculations related to the actual profit Pyber drivers would be making from these potential higher fares. If Pyber executives are interested in further exploring the incentives based plan outlined in point 2, they would be well advized to invest extra time and resources into further analysis of ride distance/time factors before proceeding further with this plan.
